Hi there.
This is the De La Rue.
And welcome back.
In the last lecture, we started exploring the collectors class and we looked at two of its methods
to list and to set.
And both these methods were returning instances of collector, which was an interface.
And the collect method uses those instances of collector in order to collect the stream elements into
a list or a set.
So we learned about how to collect the stream elements into a list or a set.
And in this lecture we will learn about how to collect the stream elements into a map, and map has
key value pairs.
So if you're talking about how to group the stream elements because map has key and value pairs, so
it is about grouping the stream elements around certain keys.
And we are going to look at two new methods to map and grouping by.
And both of these are from the same collectors class and both of these also generate a collector instance
and the collect method uses them in order to collect the stream elements into a map.
So in the database world we have the group by class and here we are doing something similar.
So we are applying the group by class on collection.
So that's what we are doing and we discussed it at the very beginning and we are also going to do it
in a very elegant way and that's because we are using streams without streams.
We would have to write imperative code and that is cumbersome.
So by writing declarative code it's going to be very elegant.
So we are going to look at these two methods to map and grouping by to map would allow us to group the
elements into map and the value of the key would be a single value.
But using group BI, we can have the value to be much more complicated, like a list of items and we
can also do the same.
Using to map, but using to map.
It would be a bit more complicated.
We would have to write more code and so we can write it in a more elegant way using grouping by.
So we are going to look at both the versions.
Let's start off with looking at the two map method and at the very end we will look at the grouping
by method.
So here I introduce this new method called collect to map within stream operations class.
And we have the list of books and we know that the books are coming from two sources Barnes Noble and
Amazon.
So let's get started.
Books.
So the pipeline is what we are building.
And the collect method which takes a collector.
But the culture, we get it from the collectors class and we have the two map method and we have three
methods here for the two maps.
So we have overloaded methods and let's pick the first one and we are going to try the other methods
also.
Here it is.
So the parameter names are key mapper and value mapper.
The reason they are named in this way is because.
So the input is a book.
We have a stream of books, so we are going to iterate through each of the books and we need to get
the key here.
Since we are generating a map, we need a key and a value.
So we are going to get the key from the book.
So we are going to map the book into a key.
And we also need to do the same thing for the for generating the value also.
Now, if we highlight it here, so this is the method signature and the two map method, it has two
parameters like the first one is a function for the key mapper and the second one is also a function
for the value mapper.
And we know that the function is a functional interface.
We looked at it earlier and it is used for transforming one object into another.
So in this case, the input element would be three would be a book and we want to get the key out of
it.
So we need a function here.
So we have these two functions and we need to pass lambdas for that so that we can get the key and the
values.
So for key, let's use the ISBN of the book, which uniquely identifies the book.
So the input is book.
So before book.
So we are getting the ISBN and the value.
Let's keep it as book itself.
So the function would take a book and would also written the book.
So the input is going to be the same thing book.
Only thing is for the key.
We are getting the ISBN and for the value we are retaining it as book itself.
Now let's assign it to a map because map is what we are going to generate.
So the key is ISBN, which is a long and the value is book.
Let's call it map.
It's an important map here.
And so that's what it is.
So let's go ahead and run it.
Now we can see that there is an error and the reason is because we have duplicate keys, so it says
illegal state exception and duplicate key.
Now these books are coming from two sources and if you recall, there are certain books which are which
appear in both of the sources.
So there are duplicates and the ISBN values will be same for those duplicate books.
And that's why we have this we have this error.
So there is a collision here with the keys and we need to provide a collision resolution strategy.
So for that we have the overloaded to map method which uses a third parameter, and the third parameter
will say what we need to do when we encounter such kind of duplicate.
So what we can do is when we come across a duplicate, then we can pick the book with the lowest price.
So let's do that.
So let me comment this.
So we can use the first two parameters are just the same, the key and the value pairs.
And here for the third parameter, when there is a collision, we have to box B1 B2.
We need to use the price.
So we are going to say get price.
It is less than or equal to.
Be to.
So now it's.
Right.
So if you look at the map here.
So it has the key mapper, the value mapper and a search function.
And the search function is a binary operator because we are taking two books which are of the same type
and the output will also be an ebook which is of the same type as the input.
So that's why we need a binary operator here.
So let me run it.
Here.
Everything is fine.
So let's go ahead and print this.
Let's use a four each and let's print each of the mappings now so we can say map.
Dot.
Entry set.
And this will give a mapping and the mapping is entry.
Long value as book, let's call it entry colon.
Let's import the entry to.
Value as a book.
So that value.
That's a book and book has a two string method.
We have defined it earlier, so let's not worry.
So it's going to print the books, The Osbournes and the corresponding books.
Now here, this two map method returns a hash map.
So let's also test that.
It's important they run it again and it returns it true here.
So that's the hash map.
Now, let's say if we want the map to be a tree map, then we can use the third overloaded method here
and that will generate a tree map.
So let's also do that because right now it is returning a hash map.
And let's say if we want to sort the keys by.
In ascending order, then we would have we would need a tree map.
And let's call this tree map.
And I said, we need a third parameter here.
And the fourth parameter, and it takes a supplier.
So we need to supply a tree map.
And this is this has to be tree map.
All right, let me run this.
So that's it.
Now we have a tree map.
So as you can see, the key values over here, they are not in ascending order, but here the key values
are an ascending order.
So we can pass the data structure that we want here.
So that's it.
And the next thing is here instead of Lambda.
Keep in mind that we can also use a method reference.
Bit of a rough refresher and here we are passing a lambda.
So the input and the output is the same.
Whenever you have something like this you can also do this.
So we have the function functional interface and there is a method.
Identity.
May import function.
So there is this static method called identity within this functional interface function.
So let me click on that and let's look at the source code.
So as you can see, this is identity and it returns a function and the instance of that function is
the lambda.
Earlier we had this particular lambda expression, which we defined here explicitly.
Now instead of doing that, we can actually invoke this method.
So this is the function functional interface itself, and it also returns a instance of function.
And that's what we need.
We need an instance of function here because to map if you're over here, we showed that the two map
takes two functions here for the key and the value.
So.
Instead of explicitly specifying, we can also just invoke the identity method.
That's what normally we do if we need something like this.
Okay.
So this is what we have the function.
So we have the same output.
So we are the function is being used here for these two parameters because we are we need to perform
a transformation from the book object to key and value.
So that's that.
Now.
So here the value is a single value.
Now, sometimes we might want to have a list of items as values.
For instance, if we have these books and if we want to group those books by rating, then the key would
be rating and the value would be list of books falling under that rating.
Right?
So we can have that.
So let's also implement that.
We will be using the similar to map method.
The second the second version can be used for that.
So that's the thing.
But let's use tree map values and let's build a tree stream out of it.
The reason is if we are going to use this book's data structure and if we try to group them by ratings,
then what can happen is when we come across those duplicate books, then one of them might have one
particular rating and the other might have a different rating.
So those duplicate books might appear under two different ratings.
So let's avoid that.
So since we already have this tree map and the values of the tree map are unique books because we are
actually using this merge function where we are selecting only unique books.
If there are duplicates, we are picking the one with the lowest price.
So that's the reason we can just use the values of that.
And that way we get only unique books.
So let's do that.
While usage returns a collection of books and let's say stream.
Now we are building a stream on unique books.
So here we can you we can use get rating.
And for the value, it has to be a list.
So we will have a book as input and we can use this.
Collections Dot Singleton list.
And B will be output.
So it would produce a list, but it would have only one element.
So that's it.
But when we come across the second rating where a book with the similar rating, then we need to generate
a new list and the new list will have the item in the old list, plus also the new book.
So for that, we need to provide a lambda.
So here for that, what will happen is the merge function will take the list.
So the output of this one will be input to this one because when there is a collision, so that will
be one list.
And the duplicate element will also be part of the second list here.
So let's say this and let's put this one.
Now what we can do is instead of just saying L-1 dot add all of L to that would actually if you run
it that will give you an error because it is returning a collection and abstract collection.
And there one of the methods would return an unsupported exception.
Unsupported operation exception.
So we need to use we can define a new ArrayList here.
And let's add the first.
List.
Ah.
Now to L, let's say add all.
Let's add l two.
So with this we have a single list which has both the items, items from both the less and.
So this one returns a double because rating is double.
And it says list of book.
So values will be list of books.
Let's call it a ratings map.
So this is what we have and that's print output also.
So dot and reset and this will return an entry.
First, let's print the rating.
Now let's print all the values.
Since it's a list.
We need another envelope here.
And each entry is a book, so let's just print it and that's it.
So if we execute it, so this is what we have.
So we have we are printing all the books grouped by ratings.
Now this is instead of doing this, we can actually use the grouping by method.
So let me just do that.
For that.
We just need this part because it's much more elegant to express it that way.
So let's say.
This has to be grouping by.
Let's say ratings map one.
Let's copy this.
We actually common this out?
So once again we have the same output but using grouping by and as you can see using grouping by, it's
much more simplified.
We don't need so many different expressions this especially this complicated expression that we have
here.
Here it is, we have we need three parameters and this one is really complicated.
So grouping by by design, it will generate a key and value where the value would be a list.
So that's the advantage of using grouping by.
So it is used when you want to have the value with as a list of something, then you can use grouping
by.
If it is just going to be a single value, then you can use to map.
So grouping by is making it much more elegant.
So that's about it.
Thank you and hope you enjoyed learning about how to group the stream elements into a map.
Thank you and happy coding.